---
layout: post
title: TDS 24 - 
date: 2023-02-08 08:00 
tags: dailysomething
---

Hello to you, many months after the last Daily Something. Let's begin -



Hello! Since I last wrote one of these (12 April 2021 - 670ish days, gosh), I think most of us from our grad program at our old haunt have now moved on to other opportunities, so it took me some hunting to find some of y'alls new email addresses. But hey, happy new year!

Let's get right to it.<sup id="a1">[[1]](#f1)</sup>

____________________________________________________________________________

A Chinese balloon made its appearance over American territory last week, causing quite a bit of commotion. Memes were shared, watch parties were held, people came together to celebrate their American-ness at the sight of this foreign object, and the heavily polarized country came together as one to celebrate the stupid sight. BEEP SOUND totally wrong. Memes were shared, a political blame-game ensued, and the US Air Force scrambled a 4.5th generation fighter plane to shoot the damn thing down. When you're America, and you've spent a fair bit of time shooting down things on soil that's not your own, guess what? You are going to be [terribly ill-equipped](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/us-failed-detect-past-chinese-spy-balloons-over-united-states-us-general-2023-02-06/){:target="_blank"} to figure out how to shoot down targets on your own soil - because as we all know, the military (every military, without exception) prepares for the last war, not the next. 

Also, in this age of satellites that can give you [70, 50, and 30cm resolution](https://explore.maxar.com/Imagery-Leadership-Spatial-Resolution){:target="_blank"}, why would you launch a Jules Verne-esque balloon to spy on some other country? It doesn't add up. In any case, I'm looking forward to a fighter plane that's gonna have a balloon kill mark soon, something like this - 
image.png
photo from Twitter

____________________________________________________________________________


<br />


<p style="font-size:14px;"><sup><b id="f1">1</b></sup> Chewy tapioca balls<a href="#a1">↩</a></p>